---
layout: post
title: Happy Chinese New Year!
author: Daniella
redirect_from: /blog/item/29-happy-chinese-new-year/
---
2013 welcomes the Year of the Snake, which is the sixth sign of the Zodiac. It
will be the busiest time of the Year for many businesses and predicted to be
the most profitable Chinese New Year in 8 years. According to Chinese
tradition, the New Year is the time you must say goodbye to the past and
welcome the future.

With the imminent changes to financial regulation in the UK itâ€™s also time to
say goodbye to the Financial Services Authority (FSA) but what will the future
bring?

As of April 2013, all companies governed by the Financial Services Authority
(FSA) will be potentially hit with changes to their working practices, as the
FSA will have a complete framework restructure. It will be replaced by two new
strict and powerful regulatory bodies: the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA).

Whilst the PRA will be responsible for day-to-day banking and wholesale
supervision, the FCA is expected to take a tough stance on conduct and markets
regulation, in order to protect end consumers.

These changes will affect the entire financial services industry, especially
Fund Management, Hedge Funds, Banks, Building Societies, Insurance and
Pensions, with Marketing and Compliance departments facing the biggest
challenges and increased workload posed by the new changes.

To be prepared it is advisable to reassess your existing procedures. This will
especially apply to financial promotions, as the FCA will be able to ban
promotions that are not clear or fair and are misleading. Companies need to be
ready to stand up to scrutiny by the new regulators and ensure all promotions
pass these strict new tests.

Now is the time to be cunning like the snake and be ready to strike back by
being prepared for the changes.

Incorporate an easy-to-use approval management system into your business to
help you become FCA and PRA compliant by streamlining your marketing sign-off
process.

This type of system will give you the reassurance that you have an efficient
and transparent sign off procedure, by having all Compliance, Marketing and
other necessary departments approve all promotions and having their feedback
documented.

It will significantly aid in avoiding your promotions from being banned. It
will also reduce the likely higher workloads that the new rules will entail.

Our approval management software DotApprove can provide you with a system to
help reduce the impact of regulatory changes. Please complete your details
below or call 020 7562 2210 if you are interested in finding out more.

For further information on the FCA and PRA coming into action stay tuned on our
site and blog.
