---
layout: post
title: 'One click publishing: helping ease the workload for financial marketers'
author: Daniella
---
2013 has certainly been a year for regulatory change. It may seem a long time
ago, but January saw the long awaited implementation of RDR. This on its own
had a huge impact on who could distribute and advise on products to UK retail
investors, as well as shaking up the fee structure. But this pales in
comparison to more recent changes bought about by the change in regulator. In
April, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) took over all regulatory
responsibilities for protecting consumers from the Financial Services
Authority. This change impacts everyone involved in providing financial
products and services to UK consumers, as the FCA have clearly stated their
intentions to be much stricter and enforce the rules more rigidly than their
predecessor.

This has an obvious impact on your workload if you work in marketing for
financial products and services. It’s crucial that you make the necessary
changes to stay on top of the regulatory environment, otherwise your firm risks
fines and maybe even public censure. This could mean a review and
simplification of your marketing language; a clearer definition of your
product’s target market; or the addition of risk considerations or disclaimer
language in your product documentation. Whatever the changes needed, no doubt
you are under some pressure to get the changes in place quickly and
consistently across all of your firm’s marketing collateral.

Of course, these changes need to be done at the same time as your day job.
Client pitch presentations still require careful research and precision in
order to win new business. New product marketing literature needs to be
thoughtfully drafted. Monthly performance factsheets still need to be produced.
It’s important that these things don’t suffer at the hands of implementing
regulatory change. Unfortunately, that’s not always the case. As reported in
Money Marketing in February 2013, Chelsea Financial Services has publically
criticised asset managers for failing to publish up-to-date factsheets for
their funds, having found ‘a worrying number of fund factsheets…three to six
months out-of-date’.

You and your team need to be looking for ways to make your existing workload
efficient, otherwise you face a difficult juggling act between your day-to-day
marketing responsibilities and implementing regulatory change. And this is
where automation can really help. Rather than simply throwing man hours at
updating standard, ongoing marketing documents, you might consider technology
solutions to help with automated publishing.

Monthly performance factsheets are a perfect example of how this could work.
The base template of your factsheets remains the same month to month, but
updated performance data and perhaps some manager commentary needs to be added.
This is often done manually, with even more time being spent checking each one
meticulously afterwards to ensure it’s accurate and nothing’s been missed.

Wouldn’t it be a welcome relief if all you had to do was to upload the revised
content in one central location and have it automatically update across all of
your factsheet templates? This is all entirely possible via DotApprove, our
automated publishing tool.

DotApprove has enormous potential for financial marketing teams. Factsheets are
an obvious example, but it can also help with the automated publication of any
standardised document you produce, including sales aids, PowerPoint
presentations, KIIDs, web content or any other client reporting. By using
clever automation software like DotApprove, you and your team can free up more
time to spend on other important tasks, such as ensuring your processes and
documents are FCA compliant.

Want to know more? We’d love to discuss how DotApprove can help automate
publication of your marketing documents. Please get in touch and we can arrange
a live demo.
