---
layout: post
title: The True Cost of Regulatory Change
author: Daniella
---
Given the recent monumental changes in the UK financial regulatory landscape,
it’s hardly surprising that the regulatory fees levied on financial firms have
increased. But do these levies reflect the true cost of regulatory change to
firms and investors, or could it potentially be much more than that? And is
there anything that firms can do to limit the impact of these increased costs
on their businesses?
<!--more-->
First, let’s look at the facts. Financial firms are asked to contribute to
external regulatory costs in three ways: a fee to cover the FCA/PRA annual
funding requirement, a levy to pay for the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS)
and a levy to cover the Money Advice Service (MAS). The amount a firm is
required to pay depends on the nature and size of their business. In their
April 2013 Consultation Paper ‘FCA Regulated fees and levies: Rates proposals
2013/14’, the FCA outline their proposed funding requirements for 2013/2014:

* The annual funding requirement for the FCA and PRA is expected to increase by
  15% to £646.3m
* The Financial Ombudsman Service general levy is set to increase by 30% to
  £23m
* The Money Advice Service levy requires £78.3m of funding (a 3% decrease from
  last year)

There has also been much press coverage on the cost of regulatory change over
the longer term, with Money Marketing reporting that RDR could cost firms up to
£2.6 billion over 5 years (FSA stats: RDR costs could reach £2.6bn in 5 years,
14 March 2013). It’s also worth noting that with fewer firms operating in the
independent space since the introduction of RDR, this cost is spread around
fewer firms, worsening its impact.

And let’s not forget that the move from the Financial Services Authority (FSA)
to the FCA/PRA will not be cheap, and costs will likely be spread over a number
of years. Firms will have to pay for the new powers and responsibilities of the
new regulators. The FCA’s intention to be tougher should generate more revenue
from fines and potentially bring down future FOS bills by banning ‘toxic’
products, but this won’t cover the substantial cost increases. Firms are facing
larger funding requirements from the FCA, to ensure they have the necessary
resources to deliver on their new objectives as well as the practical costs of
implementing their new structure.

But do these external costs, imposed on firms by the regulator, even start to
scratch the surface? Surely the true cost faced by financial firms lies in how
much needs to be spent internally to adapt their businesses to conform to the
new rules? For example, computer systems may have to be updated in order to
comply with requirements for commission-free products. Consultants or permanent
staff may be required to assess product suitability and target market
identification. Electronic and print media may need to be updated to meet new
marketing standards. All of these are projects that require time, resources and
funding. Whilst it’s hard to put a figure on the cost of internal change
required, it’s likely to be substantial for most, if not all, firms.

And what does this mean for end consumers? The recent regulatory changes are
designed to help protect consumers, but ultimately they will also be paying the
price for it. Firms may need to increase costs and fees to help them pay for
internal changes, and certain product lines may simply disappear as they are no
longer profitable to offer. This could result in consumers paying higher prices
and having a reduced product choice. So whilst firms have little say in what
external fees and levies are imposed on them, what can they do to ensure their
internal costs of change are minimised as much as possible, to avoid detriment
to their customers?

One way for firms to manage costs is by making their internal processes as
efficient as possible. And no firm can do this without first knowing what the
costs associated with each part of their business are. The production of
accurate, transparent reporting is essential for budgeting purposes, and robust
technology is needed in order to produce this.

For example, if you are a firm involved in distributing financial products and
services to consumers, I’m sure you agree it would be useful to know how many
marketing campaigns have been completed, and what types of campaign they were –
perhaps grouped by the product or service being marketed, or the specific
target market they were aimed at. How much did each of these campaigns cost,
relative to how much revenue has been generated?

It would also be useful to report on how many marketing approvals have been
completed and by whom, and if marketing projects are being held up, why. By
having fast and accurate reporting tools, you can accurately measure your
efficiency and identify ways to reduce costs. What’s more, efficient and robust
project management is essential to save on the hard costs of fines and the
incalculable costs of damaged reputations when things are missed, or changes
aren’t updated correctly.

Our tool DotApprove can help firms make their processes more efficient. A few
practical ways it can help are:

* Updating disclaimers: DotApprove offers the ability to search instantly
  across all your documents for disclaimers that need updating at one time,
  rather than manually going through each document one by one
* Project management tools: Built in workflow and approval hierarchies help
  with the efficient creation and updating of all types of marketing collateral
* Report generation: With the click of a button, identify all documents that
  haven’t been updated and/or approved and may therefore fall foul of the new
  regulatory standards
* Streamlined procedures: DotApprove incorporates a fully customisable workflow
  tool, helping you eliminate duplications of effort in your processes and
  manage deadlines more effectively

Interested to know more? Just complete the short form below and we’ll be in
touch.
