---
layout: post
title: A social media strategy without the risk
author: Daniella
---
At the start of 2013, the number of active users on Facebook exceeded a
landmark one billion, having increased 25% from last year. With over 200m of us
‘LinkedIn’ and around 500m of us in the Twittersphere, it seems that most of us
use social media in one way or another on a regular basis.

Many businesses are big users of social media, having realised its immense
marketing potential. Firms can use this outlet to achieve direct communication
with their clients in a time and cost effective way. Via social media, you can
position yourselves as thought leaders in a specific field, strengthen your
brand, promote your products and services and, most importantly, engage in
conversation with your client base.

In January, PRWeek looked at how well FTSE 100 firms manage their brand via
social media and discovered that there’s been a 50% increase in corporate
blogs, a 36% increase in YouTube channels and a 27% increase in the number of
companies with a Facebook page in the past year. Smaller firms are probably
even bigger users as they campaign to build their brands.

It therefore makes sense that the FCA Chief Executive, Mr Martin Wheatley,
recently voiced his plans for the regulator to monitor financial companies’
social media more closely. As well as spotting general trends, the purpose
behind this is to find instances where firms are misleading customers, either
through non-compliant financial promotions or misselling. What’s more, there is
soon to be new legislation that spells out how firms should be using social
media, and to make sure that this medium is clearly covered by the financial
promotion rules.

Of course, the fear of hitting headlines for the wrong reasons are turning a
lot of companies off social media marketing, especially in the financial
sector. Marketing campaigns for financial products and services are usually so
tightly controlled to ensure the right information is given to customers, in an
appropriate way.  Many firms can’t see how they can achieve the same levels of
controls over social media campaigns. But are some firms too cautious with
their social media policies and therefore missing out? Given the potential of
social media to reach sizeable and relevant audiences, can firms afford to miss
out on this opportunity?

American Express is one example of a financial firm that has used social media
to converse with their customers and really strengthen their brand – they use
more social media channels than any other financial firm and have over 600,000
followers on Twitter and over 2.7 million ‘likes’ on Facebook. Here are 5
simple steps that can put you on the right track to repeat their success:

1. Don’t just publish information, talk to your customers. Twitter is great for
   this, allowing you to respond to your followers (even your critics)
   instantly.
2. Target the right audience. If you need to ask for followers / connections,
   make sure they’d genuinely be interested in what you have to say. It’s not a
   number’s game – it’s better to have fewer, high-quality contacts who listen
   to what you say than countless irrelevant ones who will skim over you.
3. Think carefully about who can publish information. If you have a
   ‘free-for-all’ policy, with no co-ordinated control over what gets
   announced, not only do you risk publishing conflicting messages, but you
   might very well make headline news for the wrong reasons.
4. Don’t mix business and personal. Not only is this a compliance minefield,
   but also a potential marketing one if your personal opinions aren’t on brand
   with your firm.
5. Consider an approval tool. By using robust and efficient technology like our
   DotApprove software, you can ensure your social media content is reviewed
   and approved  before it’s published.

Many firms are formulating, if they haven’t already, a social media marketing
policy to take advantage of this cost effective, highly visible marketing
medium. Most likely these include the first 4 rules listed here, or variations
of them. But without the 5th golden rule, there’s always the risk that the
wrong information can go public. Even viral.

With DotApprove you can have the best of both worlds – access to the fantastic
marketing opportunities available via social media, but in a controlled way.
Interested to know more? Just fill out the form below and we’ll be in touch or
call 0207 562 2210 to discuss further.

<iframe src="http://web.dotapprove.co.uk/perivancouk-ack2m/pages/rxfny0fqeeo3qzxkktvymq.html" allowtransparency="true" width="100%" height="500px" type="text/html" frameborder="0" style="border:0"></iframe>
