---
layout: post
title: Compliance issues affecting the UK wealth management industry
author: Steve Coleman
redirect_from: /blog/item/45-compliance-issues-affecting-the-uk-wealth-management-industry/
---
At the Wealth Management Business Performance event - sponsored by DotApprove -
ComPeer released their latest report on the UK’s wealth management
industry<sup>1</sup>. There was also a variety of fascinating and insightful
talks on the opportunities and threats faced by the sector.

We’d like to share with you some insights from the day that are pertinent to
compliance and risk professionals. We’ve also been given permission by ComPeer
to highlight the key findings from their research that have an impact on
compliance.
<!--more-->
Among the findings was stark evidence that the cost of compliance for wealth
managers continues to grow.

The report shows that in 2013, compliance departments accounted for £190m of
costs within the UK wealth management industry – more than double the £91m they
cost 10 years ago.

And this isn’t the whole picture. A recent ComPeer survey<sup>2</sup> found
that hidden compliance costs - payment of levies and fines; senior management
time spent on compliance – were on a par with the direct costs, therefore
taking the real cost of compliance for wealth managers to more than £420m a
year.

The number of regulations wealth management firms need to comply with is
growing, and will increase further in coming years. ComPeer’s estimate is that
the cost of compliance for the industry will soon be in excess of £500m a year.

It’s clear to see that compliance is a significant and ever-increasing outlay.
Removing time and cost from the compliance process can dramatically improve the
bottom line for wealth management firms.

Reputational damage was the main theme of an entertaining talk by Dr Tim May,
CEO of The Wealth Management Association (WMA). When is a spelling mistake
acceptable, he asked? Would we accept it in an internal email or a client
letter? Examples of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors on “unnamed wealth
managers’” websites were used to accentuate this point. Companies not checking
content can damage their reputations and he urged businesses to “get the right
culture to ensure the highest standards are expected” and to “take time out to
find out why are errors occurring such as spelling mistakes”.

Detective Superintendent David Clark from the City of London Police gave a
worrying insight into the “consistent and growing threat” of cybercrime. Since
the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau was established in 2010, 8 million
records of cybercrime have been captured. An average of 70,000 records are
reported per month of which 20,000 are from individuals and 50,000 from
industry. In the past year, they’ve closed 28,000 bank accounts, 52,000
telephone numbers and 1,140 websites due to fraud, with Bitcoin and e-currency
an increasing problem as they’re unregulated.
 
The figures certainly made us think about the risk to businesses. Prevention is
the key but many firms fail on the basics. Do you have a cybercrime prevention
model in your company?

The final compliance related talk was regarding the results of a survey by
ComPeer in partnership with AMOSCA into CRD IV reporting. The wealth management
industry underestimated the complexity of the regulation and the impact of the
reporting burden. Many were critical of the poor communication from the FCA
regarding the changes and not surprisingly, feel that regulation is onerous.

Existing software vendors have struggled to deliver the XBRL functionality
required. The conclusion was that many firms had put in place basic solutions
to meet the deadline and would then look into more sophisticated solutions when
they had time.

I hope you’ve enjoyed our compliance and risk perspective on the event. If you
would like to read a summary of the results from the Wealth Management Business
Performance Survey then please enter your details below to download a copy of
ComPeer’s presentation.

If you want to reduce the cost of compliance in your firm, please speak to us
about DotApprove. Call {% include nowrap.html content='020 7562 2210,' %} email
{% include email.html email='solutions@perivan.co.uk' punct='.' %}

<sup>1</sup> Wealth Management Business Performance 2014, ComPeer Limited  
<sup>2</sup> The Compliance Tsunami March 2014, ComPeer Limited
