---
layout: post
title: FCA confirms new rules for the consumer credit market
author: Steve Coleman
---
In announcing the final rules that will govern the consumer credit market, the
FCA has shown it means business. Payday lenders and consumer credit companies
will from now on be subjected to an unprecedented level of regulatory
supervision. The new rules give the FCA power to ban misleading adverts and
will force companies to work within tight rules aimed at treating their
customers fairly.

The FCA promises to take a tougher approach to consumer credit than the
previous Office of Fair Trading (OFT) regime. The FCA differs from the OFT in
that it has:

* Wider enforcement powers – and states that its aims include; bringing more
  enforcement cases and pressing for tough penalties for infringements of
  rules;

* A stricter approach to companies’ compliance and risk governance processes

* A strong focus on; Treating Customers Fairly; – a key tenet of the FCA’s
  regulation and one that businesses will need to prove that they address

The FCA confirmed their supervision of firms will be hands on and they will
closely monitor how providers treat their customers, in particular those
operating in higher risk sectors such as credit cards, debt management and
payday. They will respond quickly to any issues that are identified and there
will be swift penalties for any firm or individual found not to be putting
consumers’ interests first, including possible enforcement action and consumer
redress.

Consumer credit providers will need to ensure that they give customers the
right information to make informed choices, that their services meet consumer
needs, and that people in difficulty are treated fairly. The FCA has also
confirmed the following approach:

* Firms that do higher risk business and pose a potentially greater risk to
  consumers will face an intense and hands on supervisory experience

* A robust authorisation gateway to ensure that any firm or individual
  authorised to do consumer credit business is fit and proper, and that firms
  have suitable and sustainable business models

* Dedicated supervision and enforcement teams will crack down on poor practice,
  money laundering and unauthorised business. Firms that break the rules may
  face detailed investigations and tough fine

Martin Wheatley, the FCA’s chief executive, said: “Our new rules will help us
to protect consumers and give us strong new powers to tackle any firm found to
be overstepping the line.”

If you’re concerned about whether your current processes and marketing activity
would meet FCA regulations – or about the volume of work you need to do to
ensure that they will – please contact us. We will show you how DotApprove can
streamline your approvals processes, ensure robust compliance procedures, and
make your marketing more efficient.

Please complete your details below: 
